readme.md, before:

# Website for the Ruby on Rails DeCal at UC Berkeley

## Setup

First, make a file for your environment variables:

    touch config/initializers/_environment_variables.rb

We're using Devise so you should set `Devise.secret_key` in the `_environment_variables.rb` file.

Copy over the `database.yml` file from `config/sample/database.yml` to `config/database.yml`:

    cp config/sample/database.yml config/database.yml

Create the database using:

    rake db:create

Migrate the database:

    rake db:migrate

To seed the database, we have a rake task that loads users specifically for development purposes only.

    rake db:seed

For faster development, you might want to add yourself to the `db/seeds/development.rb` file.

Start the server:

    rails s -p 3002

Happy developing!

## Heroku Deployment

There's a file, `/config/initializers/_environment_variables.rb`, which contains environment variables (mostly keys) that are not safe to upload to GitHub (added to .gitignore) so if you create this file, you can set your environment variables here easily.
For example:

    ENV['SECRET_KEY'] = 'secret-password'

Make sure to set up GITHUB_KEY and GITHUB_SECRET to have the auth work!

Since we use Git to deploy to Heroku, this file won't be included, so you'll have to set the environment variables manually, and this can be done just once. The equivalent of the above on Heroku is:

    heroku config:set SECRET_KEY=secret-password

Commit message:

Upgrade to puma, updated the Proc file, and create a foreman environment

readme.md, after:

# Website for the Ruby on Rails DeCal at UC Berkeley

## Setup

First, make a file for your environment variables:

    touch config/initializers/_environment_variables.rb

We're using Devise so you should set `Devise.secret_key` in the `_environment_variables.rb` file.

Copy over the `database.yml` file from `config/sample/database.yml` to `config/database.yml`:

    cp config/sample/database.yml config/database.yml

Create the database using:

    rake db:create

Migrate the database:

    rake db:migrate

To seed the database, we have a rake task that loads users specifically for development purposes only.

    rake db:seed

For faster development, you might want to add yourself to the `db/seeds/development.rb` file.

Start the server:

    rails s -p 3002

Or use foreman:
    foreman start -e development.env

And to see development logs run if using foreman:
    tail -f log/development.log

Happy developing!

## Heroku Deployment

There's a file, `/config/initializers/_environment_variables.rb`, which contains environment variables (mostly keys) that are not safe to upload to GitHub (added to .gitignore) so if you create this file, you can set your environment variables here easily.
For example:

    ENV['SECRET_KEY'] = 'secret-password'

Make sure to set up GITHUB_KEY and GITHUB_SECRET to have the auth work!

Since we use Git to deploy to Heroku, this file won't be included, so you'll have to set the environment variables manually, and this can be done just once. The equivalent of the above on Heroku is:

    heroku config:set SECRET_KEY=secret-password
